# SyntheticTrafficGenerator_OPCUA
This repository hosts an ML-based synthetic OPC UA traffic generator.
# Synthetic OPC UA Traffic Generator

This repository hosts an ML-based synthetic OPC UA traffic generator.

## Jupyter Notebook (Recommended)

If you already have a conda or jupyter environment to run jupyter notebooks, then it is easier to to clone the repository, and simply open the `VAE-LSTM.ipynb` notebook in this environment for execution.

1. Clone the repository: `git clone https://github.com/Mentor-Roma/SyntheticTrafficGenerator_OPCUA.git`
2. Navigate into the cloned repository: 
3. Open the `VAE-LSTM.ipynb` notebook and execute the cells.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository: `git clone https://github.com/Mentor-Roma/SyntheticTrafficGenerator_OPCUA.git`
2. Navigate into the cloned repository: `cd SyntheticTrafficGenerator_OPCUA`
3. Create a virtual environment `python3 -m venv venv`
4. Activate the virtual environment `source venv/bin/activate`  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
5. Install all necessary requirements `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Build, Train and Generate

Run the `build_train_generate.py` script when you want to build, compile and train the model by yourself, on same or different OPC UA traffic. Note that this training process will take some time depending on the processing capabilities or not (GPU, TPU...)

The script does the following:

1. Read the .pcap files, process it into suitable format for ML model
2. Build and compile the VAE-LSTM hybrid model
3. Train the model
4. Generate a specific number (defined by variable `num_samples`) of packet payload
5. Save these payloads as byte objects in a binary file (called `bytes_list.bin`) that will be used by the socket program

## Generate
Run the `generate.py` script when you do not want to train the model by yourself. This script does the following:

1. Build and compile the VAE-LSTM hybrid model
2. load the weights from the file `model_weights.h5`
3. Generate a specific number (defined by variable `num_samples`) of packet payload
4. Save these payloads as byte objects in a binary file (called `bytes_list.bin`) that will be used by the socket program

## Run the TCP/IP Socket server

The script `tcp_socket_server.py` creates a TCP/IP socket server that listens to the localhost - port 4840, and responds with an acknowledgment each time it receives a packet

## Run the TCP/IP Socket client

The script `tcp_socket_client.py` creates a TCP/IP socket client that reads the `bytes_list.bin` file generated by the model, and encapsulate the payloads into complete TCP/IP packets. These packets are sent the socket server one after the other. 
Use a Parser or packet inspection tools like Wireshark to capture the traffic on the loopback interface.
To generate the dataset provided, bytes_lists of severall lengths have been used to generate packets of different lengths, notably 143, 126, 147 and 108 bytes. These byte lists are found in the folder `byte_lists`



